# vis20w A3
# Dennis Gubbels

I started with the Vue template that was provided. From there I filled in the two components for the map and scatter plot. The coloring is based on a 3x3 bivariate color scheme. The y/blue axis shows Median Income and the x;x/red axis measures Burglary Rate. The data is always adjusted to the selected year. The scale is adjusted to a round number that fits the extent of data for the selected year. This means that the axes do not start at 0. Nonetheless, this method was deemed preferable in order to assure a good spread of the data across the color scale as the range of data changes significantly over the years. 

The map shows the 50 states + D.C colored according to the median income and burglary rate. Puerto Rico was removed from the map since it was not included in the dataset. The scatter plot shows all states represented as circle on the plot. Hovering over these circles showes a tooltip with the name of the state. The plot is divided into the nine differently colored segments. Clicking on a state in the map will highlight that state in the scatter plot. Clicking outside the map elements removes this highlight. The user is also able to select (brush) a section of the scatter plot to show only these states on the map. States not in this selection will be grayed out. Clicking outside this selection in the plot clears the selection. Finally, scales, axis labels and a page heading were added to complete the visualization.

The ./dist folder contains the built code for viewing the visualisation locally.